DERIVATIONAL
Derivational affixes are evaluated from the inside out.

-da is used on any other word to produce a noun.
	verb tekta "live" -> noun tektada "life"
	verb 
	adjective mæltjom "serene" -> noun mæltjomda "serenity" 

-tsom forms an adjective from a noun. If the root word ends in -d, the t is merged and the s becomes voiced so the produced word will look like -dzom. If you wish to make an adjective from a verb, you need to first transform it to a noun using -da.
The produced adjectives can vary from extremely literal to abstract. Most often the adjective deals with the core or most recognizable feature of the original object.
	noun çel "beauty" -> adjective çeltsom "beautiful"
	noun kva "water" -> adjective kvatsom "wet"
	verb tsumt "think" -> adjective tsumdatsom "deliberate (describing a person)"

-vha produces a verb from another part of speech. The interpretation of the result is usually "to bring *x* to pass".
	noun palli "end" -> verb pallivha "bring to an end"

INFLECTIONAL
If there are multiple types of affixes on one word, inflections are applied last.

Dwarvish has two numbers: singular and plural.
Pluralization of nouns or adjectives happens by means of an -i- infix. It is applied like this:
Look at the last vowel in the word. 
If this vowel is not word-final, infix an i after it. 
If the vowel is word-final and it is not the only vowel in the word, infix an i after the next-to-last vowel. 
If the vowel is word-final and the only vowel in the word, add an i after it.
This becomes complicated when the vowel chosen by this algorithm is actually two vowels, as in the adjective mjaa "good" or the noun laun "sea". These cases are generally irregular, but most often just have the second vowel of the cluster be replaced by the i.
Adjectives are inflected in number 
	noun dovvt "finger" -> doivvt "fingers"
	noun voda "being" -> voida "beings"
	noun ʒe "night" -> ʒei "nights"
	adjective mjaa "good" -> mjai "good, of multiple people"
	noun taaz (a stimulant) -> tajaz "multiple taaz plants"
	noun laun "sea" -> lain "seas"


vii- is the negative affix. It can be freely applied to verbs and adjectives, producing exactly the words you would expect.
Applying it to a noun instead most often produces an adjective.
	verb kraukh "change" -> verb viikraukh "stagnate"
	verb reŋkla	"sleep" -> verb viireŋkla	"wake"
	adjective mjaa "good" -> adjective viimjaa "not good"
	noun del "sound" -> adjective viidel "silent"


EXAMPLES
verb sulvket "bend" -> adjective sulvketsom "flexible" -> adjective viisulvketsom "rigid"
noun çel "beauty" ->  adjective çeltsom "beautiful" -> noun çeltsomda "beautiful one"
noun 
